{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\f0\fs22\lang9\tab\tab\tab\tab\b\fs28\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Name\tab\tab        \b0 : MUTHE VISHWAJEET SANTOSH\b\par
Enrollment No.  : \b0 2102030400186\b\par
SEM\tab\tab        : \b0 7th C.E.-2\b\par
Batch\tab\tab        : \b0 2 (Model-2)\par
\b Subject\tab        :  \b0 BDA\b\tab\tab\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\ul\fs36 Practical -2 \fs28\par
\i HDFS COMMANDS\ulnone\i0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
1. JPS \par
   - Syntax: jps [options]\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 i.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pnlcrm{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0 List all Java processes with their PIDs:\b\line      jps\par
{\pntext\f0 ii.\tab}\b0 List all Java processes with their PIDs and main class names:\b\line    jps -l\par
{\pntext\f0 iii.\tab}\b0 List all Java processes with their PIDs and JVM arguments:\b\line    jps -v\par
{\pntext\f0 iv.\tab}\b0 List all Java processes with their PIDs, main class names, and arguments passed to the main method:\b\line    jps -m\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1    - Description: \b0 Lists Java processes running on the machine, showing their Process IDs (PIDs) and main classes.\b\par
2. mkdir  \par
   - Syntax: hadoop fs -mkdir [options] <directory_path>\par
   - Description: \b0 Creates a new directory with the specified name.\b\par
3. ls \par
   - Syntax: hadoop fs -ls [options] <path>\par
   - Description: \b0 Lists files and directories in the specified path or current directory. Options can include `-l` for long format, `-a` for all files including hidden ones.\b\par
4. put\par
   - Syntax: hadoop fs -put local_path [remote_path]\par
   - Description: \b0 Uploads a file from the local system to a remote filesystem (often used with HDFS commands).\b\par
5. get \par
   - Syntax:hadoop fs - get remote_path [local_path]\par
   - Description: \b0 Downloads a file from a remote filesystem to the local system (often used with HDFS commands).\b\par
6. cat\par
   - Syntax: hadoop fs -cat [options] file_name\par
   - Description: \b0 Concatenates and displays the content of one or more files.\b\par
7. mv  \par
   - Syntax: hadoop fs -mv [options] source destination\par
   - Description: \b0 Moves or renames files or directories from the source to the destination.\b\par
8. cp\par
   - Syntax: hadoop fs -cp [options] source destination\par
   - Description:\b0  Copies files or directories from the source to the destination.\par
\b 9. movefromlocal  \par
   - Syntax: hadoop fs -movefromlocal local_path remote_path\par
   - Description: \b0 Moves a file from the local filesystem to a remote filesystem (often used with HDFS commands).\par
\b 10. movetolocal\par
    - Syntax: hadoop fs  -movetolocal remote_path local_path\par
    - Description:\b0  Moves a file from a remote filesystem to the local filesystem (often used with HDFS commands).\par
\b 11. rm  \par
    - Syntax: hadoop fs -rm [options] file_name\par
    - Description: \b0 Removes (deletes) files or directories. Use `-r` for recursive deletion of directories.\par
\b 12. tail \par
    - Syntax: hadoop fs -tail [options] <file>\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 i.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pnlcrm{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0 Display the last 1KB of a file:\b\line       hadoop fs -tail /user/hadoop/file.txt\par
{\pntext\f0 ii.\tab}\b0 Follow the file as it grows:\b\line      hadoop fs -tail -f /user/hadoop/file.txt\b0\tab\b\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1     - Description: \b0 Outputs the last part of a file. Options like `-f` can be used to follow the file for new additions.\b\par
13. expunge  \par
    - Syntax: hadoop fs -expunge [options] path\par
    - Description: \b0 Removes files or directories permanently from a filesystem (e.g., HDFS).\b\par
14. chown\par
    - Syntax: hadoop fs -chown [options] owner[:group] file_name\par
    - Description: \b0 Changes the owner and/or group of a file or directory.\b\par
15. chgrp\par
    - Syntax: hadoop fs -chgrp [options] group file_name\par
    - Description: \b0 Changes the group ownership of a file or directory.\b\par
16. setrep\par
    - Syntax: hadoop fs -setrep -w [-R] [replication] [path ...]\par
    - Description: \b0 Sets the replication factor for files in HDFS.\b\par
17. du\par
    - Syntax: hadoop fs -du [URI]    \par
   - Description: \b0 Estimates and reports the disk space used by files and  \tab\tab\tab directories.\b\par
18. df \par
    - Syntax: hadoop fs -df [options] [path]\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 i.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pnlcrm{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0 Human-Readable Format:\b\line     hadoop fs -df -h\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1     - Description: \b0 Reports the amount of disk space used and available on filesystems.\b\par
19. fsck\par
    - Syntax: hadoop fs  -fsck [options] [path]\par
    - Description: \b0 Checks the filesystem for errors and inconsistencies (often used with HDFS).\b\par
20. touch\par
    - Syntax: hadoop fs -touch [options] file_name\par
    - Description:\b0  Changes file timestamps or creates an empty file if it doesn't exist.\b\par
21. text \par
    - Syntax: hadoop fs  -text [options] file_name\par
    - Description: \b0 (Note: The `text` command is not standard and may vary based on context. It might be used to display or process text files.)\par
\b\par
22. stat\par
    - Syntax: hadoop fs -stat [options] file_name\par
    - Description: \b0 Displays detailed information about a file or directory, such as size, permissions, and modification times.\par
\b\par
23. chmod \par
    - Syntax: hadoop fs -chmod [options] mode file_name\par
    - Description: \b0 Changes the permissions of a file or directory using symbolic or octal modes.\par
\b\par
24. appendtofile\par
    - Syntax: hadoop fs -appendtofile file_name "text_to_append"\par
    - Description: \b0 Appends text to the end of a file (note that this is not a standard Unix command, and its implementation may vary).\par
\b\par
25. checksum  \par
    - Syntax: hadoop fs -checksum [options] file_name\par
    - Description: \b0 Computes and displays a checksum for a file to verify its integrity.\par
\b\par
26. count  \par
    - Syntax: hadoop fs -count [options] path\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 i.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pnlcrm{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0 Show Quotas (-q):\b\line     hadoop fs -count -q <paths>\par
{\pntext\f0 ii.\tab}\b0 Human-Readable Format (-h):\b\line     hadoop fs -count -h <paths>\par
{\pntext\f0 iii.\tab}\b0 Verbose Output (-v):\b\line     hadoop fs -count -v <paths>\par
{\pntext\f0 iv.\tab}\b0 Exclude Snapshots (-x):\b\line     hadoop fs -count -x <paths>\par
{\pntext\f0 v.\tab}\b0 Storage Type Quota and Usage (-t):\b\line     hadoop fs -count -t <storage type> <paths>\par
{\pntext\f0 vi.\tab}\b0 Quota Usage Only (-u):\b\line     hadoop fs -count -u <paths>\par
{\pntext\f0 vii.\tab}\b0 Erasure Coding Policy (-e):\b\line     hadoop fs -count -e <paths>\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1     - Description: \b0 Counts files, lines, or other entities in a directory or file (not a standard command, but may be used in custom scripts).\par
\b\par
27. find  \par
    - Syntax: hadoop fs  -find [path] [options] [expression]\par
    - Description: \b0 Searches for files and directories in a directory hierarchy based on specified criteria.\par
\b\par
28. getmerge\par
    - Syntax: hadoop fs -getmerge [-nl] [src ...] [dest]\par
    - Description: \b0 Merges files from HDFS into a single file on the local filesystem.\par
\par
\b 29. stat with options\par
    - Syntax: \b0\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 i.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pnlcrm{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Get the file name and modification time:\b\line       hadoop fs -stat "%n %y" /user/hadoop/file.txt\par
{\pntext\f0 ii.\tab}\b0 Get the block size and replication factor:\b\line\b0      \b hadoop fs -stat "%o %r" /user/hadoop/file.txt\par

\pard 
{\pntext\f0 iii.\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlbody\pnf0\pnindent0\pnstart1\pnlcrm{\pntxta.}}
\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1\b0 Get all details:\b\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\b0  \tab    \b hadoop fs -stat "%n %y %u %g %b %d" /user/hadoop/file.txt\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b0\tab     \b\par
 - Description: \b0 Displays detailed information about a file or directory, such as size, permissions, and modification times.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
\b\par
}
 